We're talking to Linda.
Congratulations on your book.
So tell me about, I read, I guess, on the Random House, in-house thing that you actually said that you pay for stories, you pay for ideas.
Yeah.
Tell me a little bit about that.
It's not a whole, really.
I think it started with the payment thing.
It started because I do so much work with criminals.
And...
It just kind of is a... I don't go away owing anybody else.
You don't go what, I'm sorry?
Owing anybody.
Okay.
It also, by payment, means that you don't feel as if you're intruding.
If you keep on going back and saying, listen, remember you said you went to this and this and this.
Is that true?
So that I can keep on going back and asking for more and more information.
Because it's kind of an understanding.
Because it's a deal.
Yeah.
Sometimes I've paid with fridges, sometimes the oven or the car, whatever the deal is.
But it's legal.
I know I've talked to some people like Bob Parker, who says he won't even open mail that comes to him unsolicited because he's afraid it's an idea that somebody...
is going to later, you know, whack them up for money.
Yeah, because it does.
I mean, I have to have virtually a full-time litigation lawyer on hand.
Because... So there is that problem.
Yeah, it's like, recently, I've just had somebody approach to sue me.
And I did a film, a TV series, six hours, on paratroopers returning into civilian life.
Paratroopers from?
The army.
Yeah, but I mean from which war?
Well, no, it was just, you know, the regiment.
But they were actually paratroopers from the Falklands this long, a certain group that I concentrated.
But they're probably in their 40s or something like that.
Now they are.
But I was just fascinated to find out that the army gave no kind of rehabilitation process to them, no
preparation for being put out in the city.
Plus they have these skills that... A killer.
They're trained to kill.
They have similar problems with the special forces here.
Because the government in England don't admit there is any form of a problem at all.
And another part of the problem is that the men are so proud that they won't admit that they have a problem.
And I met this specific group of soldiers, all decorated for bravery.
and all very skilled in specific killing skills, really.
And I worked with them for a couple of weeks on this thing.
And then they pulled an armed robbery.
They pulled a what?
Armed robbery.
No kidding.
And went away.
They all got heavy sentences.
Well, they couldn't have been that skilled, a bigger cut.
Well, they only got caught because it was a tip-off.
Somebody dimed them, as we say.
So they left, owing me a lot of money, owing everybody they'd ever met money.
So you were saying, this is the finest so-called regiment.
And look at these guys, what a mess.
That's a hell of a story.
So I wrote this show, and I paid them.
I also had to, because I'd guaranteed a business for them, I had to pay that.
And I paid them all the way through.
And now, eight years later, when one of them has just been released, he's suing me for more money.
But not only that, what I find absolutely appalling is that he's got legal aid to do it.
See, I'm a walking target, so they can come after me.
Probably it was that situation with the paratroopers where I now have very tough contracts.
So if somebody comes to me with a story, I say, well, this is the contract.
This is how much I pay you.
Well, in this particular instance, what I read, the gal had her own lawyer out in the car.
In the car park.
Is that right?
Yes.
So she, you know, ex-policewoman, I mean, she was also, you know, she was a very tough woman.
I mean, she was a hard guy.
unlikable wasn't it unlikable yeah and i mean to find a path that was in any way you were you could be drawn to her uh it just quite fascinated me too to attempt to do something you know why should we particularly like the person that we're reading well because it's a convention in reading we do like to have the reader does like to have some sort of empathy with the uh the character although i can think of occasions where
The day of the jackal, for instance, where we hate that guy.
And we all, you know, the protagonist.
But if you look at the new, a lot of new movies now, you say, well, who do I want to rate in this?
Who am I going for?
There isn't anyone, really.
I think it's a different concept that nowadays we are expected to only read something that we can associate ourselves with the heroine or heroes.
We should ask your back to his rather.
I'm just thinking in terms of being in the business of writing, you certainly don't want to give something to people that they aren't going to enjoy and not buy.
I hate to bring up commerce.
I was interviewed on the radio and they asked me to read out a description of her.
It's so appalling, the description of her when she went to hospital.
But it's like, we gloss over and trivialise so much.
And on television we see one week somebody is an alcoholic in a soap opera, and the next week they're clean.
Somebody is a drug addict, and the next week they're on.
Well, it doesn't work that way.
Life isn't like that.
It's much cooler.
It's much harder.
And, you know, somebody plays a prostitute on television.
And she's glamorous.
Yeah.
You want to say, this is a disgusting trade.
You know, most of the hookers are on drugs.
And I thought, well, I am not going to... I mean, I had agents going at me.
I had my publishers go and say, Linda, we want people to read this.
This woman is too awful.
We hate her.
And a couple of times I did go back and go back to her and say, listen, you're going to have to give me something.
They don't like you.
And she said, I don't give a shit.
And I said, well, you know, I've got to give a shit because, you know, I would like somebody to buy this book.
So you did this on spec?
You didn't have a contract on this?
Yeah.
You did or you didn't?
Well, I had a contract, but I mean, they, you know, the way the publishing things work is I can submit my first manuscript and they can say they're not going to do it.
That's right.
Very easy.
I know, I was with Random House and my book went to somebody else.
I'm quite familiar with the problems of the publishing business.
And now, even more so.
I mean, now they are...
Oh, they're nasty.
They'll actually breach contracts, as they did with me.
I mean, I could have sued the bastards, as a matter of fact.
The money it takes to sue.
And the reason they let me go is because there's so little money at stake.
But I got the last laugh.
My book's in its fifth printing, 50,000 copies.
Really?
Oh, that.
Yeah, it was shorts listed for the National Book Critics Circle Award this year.
Anyway, but we don't have to talk about my stuff.
Oh, but that's what I love.
But I really stuck it to them.
And I kept the advance the first one.
Oh, how wonderful.
Good story.
Briefly, this is important because I do write for about 30 papers or so.
And one which is going to take me this summer is brand new and it's starting up in the Hamptons.
And you live in the Hamptons.
Yeah.
It's called Country Magazine.
And it hasn't started yet.
In fact, I'm starting with all the Cassini and then... Oh, really?
So when I get something... I know you live out there, right?
Yes, I live in East Hampton.
Well, that's perfect.
Yes.
How long have you been there?
Three years.
No kidding.
And is this your home or is this your American home?
American home.
And how often are you there?
Summers?
Summer, but I like Christmases there, actually, more than summer.
I like to go off-season.
I mean, season, it is really horrific there.
But where I am, I'm so far removed from everything.
It's just like a piece of paradise.
It's so funny.
It's good stuff, but I'll use this, so if you don't mind.
No, not at all.
And what is wonderful is people coming up.
What a place to write.
Look at the view.
I write in a cupboard.
I go down in a cellar.
I write in a basement, surrounded by concrete.
Yes, please.
Because I can't find the light.
You know, the sun is in, the sun and the sun.
In fact, I have terrible eye trouble from the screen.
Do you write on the screen?
Yeah.
The screen has ruined my eyes.
Oh, man.
I used to have fighter pilot eyes.
I mean, I can't even pick up a dance like that.
Yeah, mine are very bad at the moment.
I did too much the last time I was there because I just come from Manhattan.
Why do you have an American base now?
I guess you've kind of... Well, to be truthful, I'm working a lot in America now.
I've just wrapped on a TV series that I've finished for NBC called The Prosecutors.
And what's wonderful about it is, you know, I didn't just launch into writing an American TV series straight off.
You say...
For me to get the American dialogue in that book right.
And it's good.
Oh, you know, it's a foreign language.
And so I wasn't, you know, egotistical enough, which so many Brits are, that, you know, that they could just do it.
Yeah, well, I just read a book by a Brit called The Grid.
Have you heard of it?
Excuse me.
Let's see.
It's called, it's about a building that goes crazy in L.A.
by Philip Kerr, K-E-R-R.
Young man, it's going to be a big book.
It's like a computer goes crazy and kills people.
And his American dialogue is terrible.
I mean, he uses, basically, it's when he uses the fuck word.
It's just so tinny when it's not used the way an American would use it.
So I was really impressed that you did kind of get the nuances.
It took a long time.
And also, I think I was helped because of having her there.
But when I did a TV series, I joined forces with Tor Frontana, who writes and produces Homicide.
And my director, who I also work very closely with for the show, is Rod Holcomb, who produced the first and directed the first DR. You're writing these?
Yes, with them.
So it's a pilot.
just wrapped last week, starring Stockard Channing, and a lovely actress called Michelle Forbes.
It's decidedly American?
It's prosecuted.
Well, I mean, you're prosecuted in the UK too, but it's an American basis.
Yeah.
Oh, totally an American show.
Because you're prime suspect.
Yeah.
I saw it, and it's very interesting to me because
You know, it doesn't like to be biased, which one, of course, when you see your own work.
But it does have a wonderful quality to it, this one.
It doesn't feel like American TV.
It just allows an emotion to go a good length through it.
You know, you don't... If somebody dies and you don't have the person, the next scene, recovered, you see...
the anguish and grief of death, what it does to people, what it does to every person in the street, and yet so they can sit and watch TV and go, oh.
Is this in the writing, or is this in the direction, would you say?
In the writing and the direction.
I mean, Tom and I, and Julie, there are three writers, Tom Fontana, Julie Martin, and myself.
We, I mean, this script has taken a long time to get to the point it's at.
But it's based on a concept that I had.
And we just threw it around with each other.
Love it.
Oh, great people.
Now, you mentioned three writers.
Obviously, one of the joys of writing a book is that... You ain't got anybody but yourself.
There's one writer, and you don't have some producer saying, like you're saying here, Jesus, she's awfully bad.
Can you gussy her up a little bit?
You don't have that.
That's what I like.
That's why...
I like to do a novel a year for that specific reason, because I can cut away from everything, just go and sit and... In that plain room, by yourself.
Yes, in that room, and I don't have to... I mean, I recently did a script for Sean Connery.
One of my favorites.
I mean, he's a wonderful, a wonderful guy.
But I'm surrounded by people that all want to put in their ideas.
I came in, actually, to rewrite a script.
And I said to them at one point, I said, you know, if I put in everything that you've just asked me for, I've got, you know, the hard book of William Shakespeare.
I said, I can't put in... So you've got all these people that say, and I think it would be great if he has no relationship...
With, you know, his ex-wife.
You want a relationship with the ex-wife, right?
And he's got a wonderful relationship with his daughter.
Wonderful relationship with his daughter.
And we're talking about a two-hour... And they're talking about a movie.
120-page script or something like that.
Because they don't understand that you can't just put in a theme in a relationship.
You've got to build it.
You have to explain to the audience.
It has to have some validity to what's going on.
Oh, man.
Hours just takes.
So then they get the script in.
And then I get to wait for the studio, and you get these messages.
Well, they're going to come back to us.
They're a bit worried about it.
This is quite a business, though, isn't it?
You profess considerable respect, apparently, for the Hollywood professionals, I guess.
Yeah, I do.
Because they are...
I did an interview with Michael Corda, you know, and he said, you know, these people make millions of dollars.
I hate him, though.
I hate him, too.
He's doing this thing on his prostate.
Give me a break.
What an excuse to write a book.
Did you hear anything about his prostate?
He's read a thing about his... Anyway.
He is a very vicious man.
Yeah.
And he absolutely blocks new writers.
He hates them.
No, because I think he sees...
rivals or something.
I know of a number of writers that that man is doing.
Well, my editor at Holt is a young man by the name of Alan Peacock, who is one of the finest editors in America, was fired by Simon & Schuster for no reason beyond the fact that he cared about literary stuff.
Anyway, we don't need any of that stuff.
Let's talk about your own fascination for the thriller genre.
It is unusual, I guess, for a woman to be so proficient in this, although it's changed a bit in recent years.
Yeah, except, you know, you say that, but in fact, you know, you go back to Agatha Christie.
But you couldn't call those thrillers, though.
I think, I mean, some people would say that the Agatha Christie was the kind of beginning of the genre.
of the thriller.
I mean, this is basically seed of the pants stuff, too.
Yeah, but I mean, you know, why did Agatha Christie, this kind of pristine middle-class woman, do it?
I mean, I do it because since I was this high, I can remember weeping down on my knees because my father wouldn't let me see Elliot Ness.
I was weeping.
because i love that show yeah and uh oh murder mystery suspense i love sitting watching it's it's piecing it together that i like and i also like making the jug the jigsaw when you do and also i've discovered this over and over and over that fact is a hell of a lot better than fiction look at the unibama story i mean
you take that as an example.
But you don't just, I mean, to me in something like that, the fascination in that is where did that strange seed come from for both of them?
You know, the ordinary family.
Because the David story is just as good or better.
Yeah, on the leave that lived underneath a rock.
And you think, wait a minute, there's more, there's always more.
You just scratch the surface.
But there's also, to me, what's fascinating is the peripheral of that.
We had the letters to the Mexicans.
But also... No, Mama.
Mommy.
The mother's letters to the editor, and the father's suicide.
There's a lot of stuff here.
Wonderful story.
But at the same time, how long does it take for somebody... Do you mind if I say something?
No, please.
How long does it take for somebody
I mean, this man has been killing for ten years.
Eighteen, actually.
Eighteen, but actually... Well, I mean, the bombs have been working well for the last ten, but it certainly wasn't for lack of effort.
He didn't grow with experience, did he?
But it has been put out how many times?
the experience this man must have.
Profiler said, you know, he's probably a highly educated guy.
Right on.
The profile was absolutely on.
In fact, his name should have kicked out of the database out of Berkeley.
Absolutely.
Should it have?
It really should have.
It amazes me that it didn't, that they were actually looking at Berkeley.
Absolutely.
That name, this guy quit without explanation.
And disappeared.
And everybody says he's a crazy guy.
Yeah.
Up in the woods.
How many people up in the woods?
How many people...
that knew that guy that he used to be at Barclay.
How many people was he a professor to at Barclay that would know?
But it's like the clues are always right in your face.
That's the most wonderful part of it, isn't it?
Are you alert to this when you're writing?
And that must be the challenge then, to make it... In the very first thing I wrote for TV,
I had a clue that I fought for it to be as hidden as I could have it.
And it was a woman questioning another woman.
First off, she says, will you have a cigarette?
She says, I don't smoke.
And she goes and she finds an ashtray like this full of cigarettes.
So she knows somebody in that house has been smoking.
And this woman's husband
had been murdered.
And then she gets her own cigarette and she looks in her bag, she's looking for a lighter.
And a smoker will usually look for a cigarette ashtray if they're in somebody's home.
Do you mind if I smoke?
So they go for the ashtray, logically.
And suddenly by this ashtray was a lighter.
And all you saw the woman do was reach for the lighter, her hand almost, and she came back as if she'd been burnt.
And she suddenly said, I have to go.
I have to go.
So the clue, that lighter, they kept saying, oh, shouldn't we have close-up lighter?
Shouldn't we have a pick-it-up, look at it?
So I said, no.
And do you know how fast that audience picked it up?
Right away.
Bang!
The public are by far more intelligent than we ever give credit.
I give major credit to how fast they pick up stuff.
But I have producers that go, no, don't you think they need more?
I say, what do you mean by they need more?
Who do you think?
Don't worry about that.
I used to love cigars.
Actually, I like the smoke.
But the audacity of this
a band of people, and often they're terribly lonely.
You want to say, look, what if you don't tell me what they can and they can't do out there?
It's furious.
So I kind of safeguard myself by saying, ah, gotcha, because that's true.
That's what happened.
I'm still interested in the story.
She recoiled because there was a truth there that she said.
and everybody in the audience knew they just knew and it turned into a terrible darkness the way she reacted in the spiral after now you started you trained to be an actress yeah and of course the focus there was a performance what was it that occasioned your
your move to the creative, well, not to say that it's not a creative enterprise, but the writing.
Well, I'd actually always written from the eye.
And I think I was scared of it, really.
Scared of what, the writing?
Yeah.
Why?
I suffered badly from dyslexia.
And so sometimes I knew my stuff was incomprehensible.
And...
But just the shyness about it.
I want to show it to people.
And then I, because I predominantly worked as a stage actress, I only ever centered my work on the stage.
And I did two plays that I would say were not just... You mean you wrote or you preferred it?
I wrote.
They were... I mean, you wouldn't believe it.
When was this?
This would be about the 80s, early 80s.
But again, you know, there's this odd mind.
Why does somebody working in London and born in Liverpool write a play about Billy the Kid?
You know, in the end, Salafi, the brain, of all the... But off I went, I went and researched Billy the Kid.
I was obsessed by Billy the Kid.
Because the reason I was obsessed by Billy the Kid was I picked up a book in an antique shop
and it described Billy the Kid.
And I thought, my God, there's the Sam Peckinpah film with Chris Christopherson.
And then I began to think, who else has played Billy the Kid?
In reality, Michael J. Pollard was the closest to him because he was tiny, he was five foot two.
Miniscule little guy.
And the more I dug into and found these information about Billy the Kid, I became obsessed by him.
So was he grotesque in the way that you visualized it?
No, I think he must have been fascinating.
You mentioned the Pollock.
He was the closest to what it would have been like in that era then anyway.
But the extraordinary cases I found we'd been picked up.
I mean, once he was picked up for dressing with a barmaid, and you think, how come this has never been...
It doesn't fit into the gunslinger.
I wrote this thing on Benedictine.
It was slaughtered.
But Ken Russell actually saw it.
I don't know why.
What was the name of it?
It was called Benedictine.
Was it a comedy?
No.
Sometimes it was a musical.
It was odd.
So they killed it, right?
The critics killed it?
Beyond, kill it.
I mean, they annihilated this one.
They blasted this with it.
But Ken Russell said to me, he said, you have one minute in that play.
It was three hours long, by the way.
One minute.
No place should be three hours long.
Sheer brilliance.
And I said, oh, thank you very much.
But that, I don't know, one minute.
Three hours is long.
Oh, it was, well, everything was wrong, actually.
So I would go back to saying, you know, I'm an actress, I have no intention of writing.
And what was odd as an actress, you know, I was playing, you know, great leading roles on stage, and then I got for a TV play, and they'd say, could you tell us what you've been doing?
And I'd say, well, I'm just playing Reagan, King Lear.
You don't even know, you'd have to say King Lear for them.
And they go, yes.
And before that, I played in Eugene O'Neill's The Iceman Comet at the Royal Shakespeare Company.
Would you mind reading this?
And they'll give you five lines of a prostitute.
And I think there comes a point in an actress's life where, really, if you get to 30 and you ain't cracked it, no matter how good you are, every script you get has got an awful lot of fingerprints over it before it gets to you.
and uh i think by contrast interrupt i think that whomever gets the role for which undoubtedly will be a film treatment out of this will be a woman who's who's probably had a few films behind her oh has to yes yeah i mean it should be very i would imagine it's very attractive to some yeah but they'll be scared of it they'll be scared of it but i don't think they're going to make her look the way you visualize her in your mind either but uh
I think also it's a very odd thing.
You can get a male hero who has a drink problem and has been beat up and is beat up, but that's attractive.
Well, it's charming, maybe.
But it is.
I mean, there's a kind of, you know, you can get... I mean, every Dutch Leonard character is flawed to some degree.
He's more or less the cleanest of the dirty.
Yeah, but all the women must be flawed.
Must not be flawed.
So if you begin with a flawed kind, I mean, it's the same in Prime Suspects.
She was flawed.
And I think a lot of people thought, oh, at last.
But, I mean, Helen Miriam had a tremendous, her own natural sensuality.
She was a very sensual woman.
And I think the mould, to break the mould, that you don't have to be 25 and look astonishing to be attractive to the opposite sex was...
You know, it seemed sad, but it was a breakthrough.
And for me, writing... I started out of frustration, I'd say.
And I was actually playing a prostitute in a show.
One of those long-running, you know, detective series on TV.
And I had ridiculous lines to say.
I never get one of the lines.
The main lead of this show was coming to see me about my child.
And she said, look, I'm a mother.
Can't we just sit and talk?
Wonderful.
She said, look, call me Maggie.
And my line was, oh, call me Juanita.
Now, there was no reference into the script as why I was called Juanita.
Q-U-A-N-I-T-A.
Yes.
So I said, could somebody tell me why I'm Juanita?
Am I...
You know, where am I from?
You know, I was East End, London.
No, I had to keep the Juanita.
Well, I could never say the line.
I just got hysterical.
So at the end of the rehearsals one day, I said, could I have a go at writing one of these?
And they said, yeah, sure, we're very sure to... Yeah, an episode.
So I went home and it was like... Brought out some treatments.
and I sent them off, and they were all rejected, but one had scrawled in pretzels.
This is brilliant.
Don't know who did it.
Could be the cleaning lady, somebody.
And... This is the start for you?
That was the start.
I looked at it.
What was the name of the series?
Widows.
And it was a monster hit.
A monster hit.
It was... Eighties?
Yes.
It became a landmark for drama in England because... Are these soaps?
No, this was like a six hour mini.
And it was the first time they'd ever had a series that starred five women without a male lead.
Were they all widows?
Yes.
But they were a specific kind of widow.
You opened the show with this big armed robbery going down, and the men were going to use explosives in the robbery, and they blew themselves up.
So in the three titles, you saw these guys pulling the masks on, getting ready to go, and then you were slowly introduced to each widow at each funeral.
And you saw the high rock, and you saw the big mama whose husband was the main man.
down to the kind of real low life.
And she was insane.
She couldn't grieve for him, she worshipped him.
And she went and got each one of the women, sat them down because she found the plants and she said, we're going to do the robbery.
And so the whole series was about the training.
Well, that sounds pretty good.
Of the women, and the fights in between with the women, and eventually they pull... So which one did you rewrite?
Which episode of this?
That was all mine, that was mine.
Oh, the whole thing was yours?
Yes, that was mine.
Oh, wow.
So, I originally based the first little treatment on a woman in a market.
And when I was out of work, I used to do market stores.
And the woman next to me
was, here, you, put that, I'll give you one, you'll come back.
She'd punch anybody.
And then somebody said to me, I know her husband.
He's in prison for 18 years.
I'm a robber.
So that's where the seed began.
And I went to her one day and I said, would you help me, give me some information.
I want to write this thing on
armed robbery and these women.
And she said, what do you mean, help you?
What do you mean?
What do you think I am, huh?
You want me to help you?
What are you talking about?
I said, well, I was wondering, you know, because I don't know that world.
He said, what, you want my world?
You want to know about my world?
Why do you want to know about my world?
Why don't you just piss off?
Go on, fuck off.
So I kept going back and saying, look, I don't mean to be rude to you.
So she said, all right, I'll tell you what, come back for a cup of tea.
Now, I'd known and worked with this woman off and on in the markets for maybe a year and a half.
And I went to her home, elegant, sophisticated, antiques, and I thought, I don't know this woman at all.
But because the voice and the manner was this tough, crude woman, there was a hidden side.
So she said, you should go see my husband.
And bit by bit, yeah, it started to form.
So then she would introduce me to more women that were involved in the peripheral of crime.
Was she beginning to enjoy this?
Yeah.
And then one day I called her and she said, I'm sorry I'm busy, listen, she said,
Again, this is for the widows thing again?
Yes.
So she said, I can't waste any more of my time.
Now, had you done this all prior to the writing of the segment?
No, I just wrote a treatment.
But you did this research afterwards?
Yes, after the treatment.
I sold the treatment.
I see.
Then I had to do the work.
The treatment is more or less like a proposal.
A couple of lines, yes.
And she said, I can't work with you, I'm too busy.
And so that's when I went to her and I said, look, I am prepared to pay you for your time.
And that's when it started.
She said, deal done.
And so that's how I started because from then on she would be very agreeing to see me because I paid her.
I mean, as you went?
Yes, I went along.
That was the first casting.
You paid her after a recession?
Yes.
So then one of the guys that was in the robbery, his wife or his girlfriend was a prostitute.
That's a great story.
So I said, do you know any prostitutes?
She said, what do you mean I know any prostitutes?
What do you think I am, eh?
I know prostitutes?
Fuck off.
Then the next day she said, look, all right, I'll tell you what.
Go over to my friend.
She'll introduce you.
And then I met another person.
Can you nail this down?
When exactly this was for me?
Well, the show came out in 1983.
And it's still talked about.
And how long did it take you to... I'm just going to check the timer.
To write.
To do the work, not just to write.
Oh, about six months.
But it was the biggest lesson in my life because... And it was called Widows.
Widows.
And what happened, because it was such a success in England, it was bought outright by Disney Studios.
And they brought me over.
Here.
To Hollywood.
And so there you've got, I mean, it's difficult to imagine, but you've got an actress that hankered after Hollywood.
All her career as an actress.
And suddenly I am first class in the Beverly Hills.
And I mean,
As a writer?
As a writer.
I've got the roses, I've got the fruit, the champagne.
And I think, it was like magic time.
And I was so dumb.
I had no idea what the hell was going on.
They kept ringing up and saying, oh, your car isn't coming for you today.
I said, that's okay, because I was by the pool.
Paid holiday.
And then eventually I went to see Katzenberg at Disney.
You were brought over to do new stuff, right?
They wanted me to do the movie of Widows, in Hollywood.
And was it produced?
No, because when I got there, I discovered this extraordinary thing.
They had bought this, but nobody had read it, and nobody had looked at the video.
And so I went in to
talk to the heads of the studio.
And they said to me, would you pitch it?
I said, pitch what?
I said, I've been here three days.
They said, would you pitch Widows?
I said, well, haven't you read it?
I couldn't believe that they'd outbidded every single studio.
But that's what I understand about them.
So I said, oh, so you want the story?
So they said, yes.
So because I'd never done a pitch before, I thought they wanted the whole story.
So I reenacted the six hours.
They were sitting there and kind of... In a stupor, huh?
In a stupor, and I said, and then she comes and she gets by the door.
I did the deaths.
Well, you learned something, didn't you?
And at the end of it, Jeffrey Katzenberg said to me, where are the laughs?
I said, what do you mean, where are the laughs?
He said, it's a drama.
He said, it isn't a comedy.
Jesus Christ.
I said, no, it's a drama.
And he said, but is this the thing we bought for Bette Midler?
Wow.
Never was done.
Never touched.
Did you get paid, right?
No.
You didn't get paid.
No, I was off.
I was out.
Back on the next plane.
You had a nice trip, though.
Yeah, I had a holiday.
But... But you learned that you kind of liked it on that side of the... Hell, yes.
I could move in there.
So when was your first book?
When did you write your first book?
Well, what was odd was after Widows, which was, as I said, a huge success.
On television?
Yeah.
Came seven years of rejection because everybody kept commissioning a script, but basically they wanted another Widows.
And because I wouldn't write another one,
I just got rejected on everything.
So this brings us up to about 1990 then, right?
Yeah.
And midway of that, I was so broke, I was going to go back into acting.
So you've basically taken off in the last five or six years?
Yeah.
And I was approached by somebody and they said, would you like to write a book?
I mean, I was so desperate for money that if they'd said, would you like to write, you know, a book on the football stadium, I'd have said yes.
And so I wrote my first book.
And I love the fact that they commissioned it, I wrote it, they did it.
This was a publisher that came to you?
Yeah.
A British publisher, American?
Pan Macmillan.
And the title was?
The Legacy.
And was it published here?
No.
It was bought by Salmon & Schuster, Michael Corder, and he blocked it.
But then, since then, I've done a book a year.
For Random?
Macmillan in England and Random is my new one here.
I was first with William Morrow.
It's just really come upon hard times.
Yeah, yes.
I think I helped.
But that's how the book started, that I needed them.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, I interrupted.
That's how the book started?
Yeah, that I needed them badly.
That you needed them badly.
And everything that you do,
the authenticity, the verisimilitude as to use it.
It goes back to the first time I wrote.
But you really feel that you have to go out and get the real goods.
Yes, because it's a great safety net.
Because if somebody says to me, oh, this is a bit coincidental, isn't it?
I say, pardon?
It's true.
See, you can't slam me for anything
Because I can come back at you.
You can say, listen, I don't think this is well written.
That's my fault.
But to say it didn't happen or it couldn't happen.
Yes.
Is, again, for me, I can turn around and say, aha.
But then, of course, you do have to allow yourself the freedom to imagine.
Oh, I have to sometimes introduce, and that's what I mean.
You can criticize me as a writer.
But, you know, as I say, I always think truth is stranger than fiction.
And the woman who is the model for this book, are you in contact with her?
No, because, I mean, what's odd is by the end of it we hated each other.
She was a very different model.
She also put me in very dangerous situations.
Really?
She used to enjoy it.
So she really is a bitch then, right?
She's a wounded creature.
But a dangerous wounded creature.
She's dangerous, but she is now, I think, I mean, she does have a very good agency, investigating agency.
She is doing very well.
And she's clean.
She hasn't gone back to drink.
But the deal was that I never, ever said where she came from, what station she was
But people must know who she is.
It would be hard to find her.
Very hard to find her.
People in the PD must know who she is, no?
Yeah.
For what it's worth.
But they think she's lower than the
But she came basically with money?
Yes.
The first time she came to me, she needed money badly.
And there's no satisfaction in seeing the story?
No, because, you know, you weave in her story, and then I have to weave out of it stuff that she can say can be directly linked to her, that she can be picked out.
And she didn't like the fact that she felt I softened her.
But, of course, the plot, the serial killer thing, that's totally invention.
No.
There was a serial killer, the hammer killer.
He used the claw hammer in identically the same way.
But not involved with her in any way.
No.
The murder that she actually witnessed that drew her back into police work was a random killing in the street.
So she found that murder for me.
I said, well...
If you don't want me to put that because it identifies you and your location, bring me the murder that I can use in this.
And so she brought me the prostitute that had been scarred on the back of her head.
Well, I paid her for it.
But what was so odd was that the day she called me up and she said, I think I've got the case for you.
And we're in a cafe outside in Beverly Hills on Rodeo Drive.
And she's got this hookah with her that she's brought in.
I mean, she was always bringing me expenses.
You know, they came in from here, there and everywhere.
Plane tickets.
I mean, I don't know where she got half these expenses from.
But anyway, she got this girl with her.
I mean, she did not... I was weeping with laughter.
She made me laugh too much.
But she was the prostitute involved in the murder.
And they got very loud.
We're out on the pavement.
And there's a little woman sitting within a foot of us.
So they said, anyway, and the Lorraine says, go on, tell her, you've got to give all the details, because if you don't get the details, she keeps on coming back.
Go on, tell her the details, tell her the details.
See?
As the girl's telling me the details, she keeps interrupting.
She's given a blowjob, right?
She's given the blowjob.
And there's this woman on this table going, just look.
So what Lorraine was saying was to position the girl.
He's in the driving seat and she's in the passenger seat.
So the head's going down to do the business.
And then he clamped her with his right hand and then opened the glove compartment with his left, which meant that he was a left-handed, coming with the hammer with the left hand.
Not necessarily, though.
Oh, sure, if he had to go over with that hand, sure.
Yes, you can't whack with that.
So if he's got a head there, you've got to have a pretty good... And he went down with the hammer, twist it, and then pull the claw.
So they virtually had their scalps ripped off.
Jesus Christ.
And...
And so we had that serial killer, so I could not put just that serial killer, because then I could be sued by his family.
I've now got to find yet another crime to lap on top of that, which was the second one she came up with was the high society family.
You must keep some lawyers busy.
I have one in permanent pay.
In permanent pay.
As they check through, they go, oh, my God.
We had one chapter of my book that had to be read, line for line, and we got this guy up here threatening us with a mid-$15 million suit.
It's a great story.
I mean, this guy's a total fabrication.
Anyway, I should send you a copy of my book.
Oh, I'd love it.
I think I've got plenty of stuff, and I've got a 10.30, so I'm going to... Okay.
I wonder if you'd inscribe this for me.
Yes.
If you'd like, give me your P.O.
box.